[docs] - Update config docs with assets (#8370)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/concepts/configuration/config-schema.mdx

## Overview

> It's often useful to configure Dagster jobs at runtime. For example, you might want to choose what dataset an op runs against, or provide a connection URL for a database resource. In general, you should use Dagster's config system when you want to modulate a computation at runtime without needing to modify the definition.

Reviewer: I think it's worth mentioning software-defined assets here, because you can supply config when launching a materialization run even if you haven't defined any jobs.

Author: Yeah I was uncertain about this. I wanted to avoid having to list assets and ops side-by-side everytime I say anything general about config because in reality, they are using the same system. So I left it at "jobs" since asset materializations technically run through a job. But if this is hidden from the user, I see why it shouldn't be the case.

What do you think of saying "configure Dagster runs at launch"? Since runs are the public-facing common connection between jobs and asset materializations.

> Various Dagster entities (ops, assets, resources) can have an attached _configuration schema_ that specifies the configurable parameters for that entity. When launching a job that executes (ops), materializes (assets), or instantiates (resources) a configurable entity, you can provide values for the parameters specified in the schema. Dagster validates this _run configuration_ against the schema and proceeds only if validation is successful. Within the function that defines the entity, you can access the passed-in configuration off of the `context`.

Reviewer: Not leading with config schema was a conscious choice from a prior revision - we were concerned that asking readers to immediately understand the notion of config schema would make the system less approachable.  I don't think that we should try to bury config schema, but I think the notion that ops, software-defined assets, and resources can be configured should be introduced before introducing schema.

Author: The impetus to put schema first came from the fact that you cannot use config in assets without schema (this is a consequence of there already being an implicit schema with the `assets` key for assets). If we want to present assets and ops together (which IMO we should for simplicity's sake), the old ordering becomes very awkward since the first section (accessing config inside compute fn _without_ schema) does not work for assets.

FWIW however, I also find the new ordering more clear generally, especially if we are discouraging config without schema. IMO 99% of the time, people are going to think: "Configuration? Cool, first, where do I define the accepted parameters? Second, how do I access them?" Not: "First, how do I access the parameters? Second, how do I specify them?" It's like you'd typically write a function signature before writing the body.

>we were concerned that asking readers to immediately understand the notion of config schema would make the system less approachable.

I agree that attempting a full presentation of config schema would be undesirable, but the common case (which is used in the example) is simple and virtually self-explanatory: key-value pairs with keys parameter names and values simple types. I mentioned that I have some other improvements for the page in mind, one of these is a greater-depth explanation of schema further down.

>I think the notion that ops, software-defined assets, and resources can be configured should be introduced before introducing schema.

Is this not already introduced beforehand the Overview section?

Author: Hmm actually now I see that you are commenting on the Overview, I thought your comment was about the flow of the lower sections. It's an easy fix in the Overview.

A common use of configuration is for a [schedule](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules) or [sensor](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules) to provide configuration to the job run it is launching. For example, a daily schedule might provide the day it's running on to one of the ops as a config value, and that op might use that config value to decide what day's data to read.

Dagster includes a system for gradually-typed configuration schemas. These make it easy to catch configuration errors before job execution, as well as to learn what configuration is required to execute a job.

> ## Defining and Accessing Configuration for an Op, Asset, or Resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Defining and accessing configuration for an op, asset, or resource
```

Suggesting we make this use sentence case. Heading case has been inconsistent until now, but we're going with H1 as camel and all others as sentence.

Reviewer: Asset -> Software-defined asset

> Configurable parameters accepted by an op, asset, or resource are specified by providing a `config_schema` to the corresponding decorator. The structure of a `config_schema` is very flexible and [fully documented in the API Reference](/\_apidocs/config). However, most of the time you will want to provide a Python dictionary, with keys the names of parameters and values the types of those parameters.

Reviewer 2: Nit - can we lose the qualifier?

> The structure of a `config_schema` is ~very~ flexible

> Configurable parameters accepted by an op, asset, or resource are specified by providing a `config_schema` to the corresponding decorator. The structure of a `config_schema` is very flexible and [fully documented in the API Reference](/\_apidocs/config). However, most of the time you will want to provide a Python dictionary, with keys the names of parameters and values the types of those parameters.

Reviewer 2: This read like some words were left out (see below) - or was this intentional?

> However, most of the time you will want to provide a Python dictionary, with keys **as** the names of parameters and values **as** the types of those parameters.

During execution, the specified parameters are accessible within the body of the op/asset/resource under `context.op_config` (for ops/assets) or `context.resource_config` (for resources). It might seem confusing that asset config is accessed under `context.op_config` instead of `context.asset_config`. However, assets are wrappers for ops, so when we access asset config we are literally just accessing config for the underlying op.

Below we define a simple op and asset with identical `config_schemas` defining a single configurable parameter, `person_name`, as well as a resource with a configurable `url` parameter:

```python file=/concepts/configuration/configurable_op_asset_resource.py startafter=start endbefore=end
@op(config_schema={"person_name": str})
def op_using_config(context):
    return f'hello {context.op_config["person_name"]}'

@asset(config_schema={"person_name": str})
def asset_using_config(context):
    # Note how asset config is also accessed with context.op_config
    return f'hello {context.op_config["person_name"]}'

@resource(config_schema={"url": str})
def resource_using_config(context):
    return MyDatabaseConnection(context.resource_config["url"])
```

> <Note>

Reviewer 2: Markdown isn't usable inside these callouts, unfortunately. Could you change the backticks here to `<code></code>` so it displays correctly?

  It is technically possible to access `context.op_config` inside ops (not
  assets) without defining a `config_schema`. However, this is not recommended

>   and will likely be deprecated in the future.

Reviewer: We should avoid making claims about what changes we'll make in the future until we have definite plans. Better to just say that using config schema is recommended.

</Note>

> You can also build config into jobs, as described in [this section of the Jobs concept page](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs-graphs#advanced-job-configuration).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also build config into jobs, as described in [the Jobs documentation](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs-graphs#advanced-job-configuration).
```

Sorry, nit here too. I'm trying to make internal references a bit more consistent and concise.

> ## Specifying Runtime Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Specifying runtime configuration
```

> If we want to execute `op_using_config` or materialize `asset_using_config`, we'll need to provide values for the parameters specified in `config_schema`. How we provide these values depends on the interface we are using.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we want to execute `op_using_config` or materialize `asset_using_config`, we'll need to provide values for the parameters specified in `config_schema`. How we provide these values depends on the interface we are using:

- [Python](#python)
- [Dagit](#dagit)
- [Command line](#command-line)
```

It's helpful to have inline subsection headings in top-level sections. It keeps the reader focused on the copy and not having to look off to the side at the on-page nav to know what's in the section.

> If we want to execute `op_using_config` or materialize `asset_using_config`, we'll need to provide values for the parameters specified in `config_schema`. How we provide these values depends on the interface we are using.

Reviewer: We prefer second-person over first-person.

### Python

> From the Python API, we can use the `run_config` argument for <PyObject object="JobDefinition" method="execute_in_process"/> or <PyObject module="materialize"/>. This takes a dictionary where configuration values for ops/assets are specified under `ops.<op_or_asset_name>.config` (for resources under `resources.<resource_name>.config`):

Reviewer 2: The `materialize` PyObject isn't showing up correctly in the preview.

## Overview

It's often useful to provide user-chosen values to Dagster jobs or software-defined assets at runtime. For example, you might want to choose what dataset an op runs against, or provide a connection URL for a database resource. Dagster exposes this functionality through a configuration API.

> Various Dagster entities (ops, assets, resources) can be individually configured. When launching a job that executes (ops), materializes (assets), or instantiates (resources) a configurable entity, you can provide _run configuration_ for each entity. Within the function that defines the entity, you can access the passed-in configuration off of the `context`. Typically, the provided run configuration values correspond to a _configuration schema_ attached to the op/asset/resource definition. Dagster validates the run configuration against the schema and proceeds only if validation is successful.

Reviewer: * I found the executes / materializes / instantiates with the parentheses a little hard to parse. Maybe just say "uses"?
* "launching a job" -> "launching a run".

A common use of configuration is for a [schedule](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules) or [sensor](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules) to provide configuration to the job run it is launching. For example, a daily schedule might provide the day it's running on to one of the ops as a config value, and that op might use that config value to decide what day's data to read.

## Defining and accessing configuration for an op, asset, or resource

> Configurable parameters accepted by an op, asset, or resource are specified by providing a `config_schema` to the corresponding decorator. The structure of a `config_schema` is flexible and [fully documented in the API Reference](/\_apidocs/config). However, most of the time you will want to provide a Python dictionary, with keys the names of parameters and values the types of those parameters.

Reviewer: This is pure style feedback, so feel free to ignore, but I think the first sentence would be more readable in the active voice. E.g. "You can which configuration parameters your op, asset, or resource accepts by providing a `config_schema` to the corresponding decorator".
